# The Spreadsheets
Glorion supports extensive customization and interaction in your Tabletop Role-Playing Game (TTRPG) campaigns through two primary Google Sheets documents:
- **Database Spreadsheet**: Managed by the DM, this spreadsheet stores all campaign data, including custom classes, races, backgrounds, abilities, items, and more. It's the primary data source for the campaign, with each **Character Spreadsheet** linked to it. One Database can serve multiple campaigns, with options to differentiate between them.
- **Character Spreadsheet**: Used by players to generate and manage their characters. It allows players to issue commands, perform dice rolls, undo actions, level up, and more, while drawing from the DM's Database.

# Installation
1. **Requirements**: You'll need a **Google Drive** account, so make sure you have a **Gmail**.
2. **Copy the Spreadsheets**: Each DM should copy one **Database Spreadsheet**, and each player should copy one **Character Spreadsheet**:
    - **Database Spreadsheet**: https://tinyurl.com/glorion-database-copy
    - **Character Spreadsheet**: https://tinyurl.com/glorion-copy
3. Grant **View Access** to the **Database Spreadsheet**:
    - While inside the Database, select **File** at the top, hover over **Share** and then click on **Share with others** from the sub-menu. Under **General Access**, change the default **Restricted** setting to **Anyone with the link** (which grants **View Access**). Click **Copy Link** and share this link with your players.
4. **Setup for Character Spreadsheets**: Each **Character Spreadsheet** requires a few setup steps with information provided by the DM:
    - **Database ID**: Extract the **Database ID** from the Database link provided by your DM. For example, in `https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1NiCEk_88ws2IHuwH7PiyiUKIeDzaw0LcaGzo0F4Z8XI/edit?gid=0#gid=0`, the ID is the part between `/d/` and `/edit`, in this case `1NiCEk_88ws2IHuwH7PiyiUKIeDzaw0LcaGzo0F4Z8XI`. By default, **Character Spreadsheets** point to the original Database, which remains functional, but cannot be edited.
    - **Items Key**: This key is the name of the sheet within the Database that contains the item list for the campaign. By default, it’s named **The Vault**, a starter list of items provided by Glorion, ready to be edited to the liking of any DM. My suggestion is that a DM should have a unique and customized item list for each of their campaigns, which by default should be copies of **The Vault** sheet with surgical modifications, each with their own name (**Items key**), e.g., "*Wonderworks*", or "*Equinox*".

> ***Note**: Fear not, you can leave these to their default values and modify them later, via the **Variables** sheet. More in #faq.*
5. **Create Your Character**: To start, select **Create Character** (either through the web via the button, or through mobile via the dropdown). Follow the instructions for any character choice required and eventually, you'll just need to lay back, as Glorion takes care of building your entire spreadsheet.
> ***Note**: Due to Google Sheets’ script timeout (it's about 5 minutes, as it thinks that you're stuck in an infinite loop), you'll most definitely have your character creation process halted at some point. Worry not however, you can resume by clicking the same button, and Glorion will pick up where you left, keeping track of previous selections, whether that's during character choices or during sheet creation.*
6. **Reset Option**: If you need a fresh start, press **Reset**. This clears the sheet’s memory, removing all choices and any additional sheets or variables (named ranges).

For further instructions on specific sheets in the **Database Spreadsheet**, please refer to #faq.
# Authorization
1. **Database Spreadsheet**: Upon copying, you’ll see a prompt: "*Warning: Some formulas are trying to send and receive data from external parties.*". Click **Allow Access** to display the button images in the **Buttons** sheet, which are sourced from **Google Drive**, an __external party__ to the spreadsheet. All buttons should now be shown in the **Preview** column properly.
2. **Character Spreadsheet**: After entering the correct **Database ID** and **Items Key**, you’ll see the message "*Database is connected and authorized*" in green, meaning that your spreadsheet has reached the database and a proper connection has been established. Next, click on **Authorize Scripts** to open a permissions dialog and press **OK**. This must be done from the web, as it's impossible to grant permissions through mobile:
    - Select your current Google account and navigate past the "*Google hasn’t verified this app*" warning by clicking **Advanced** to the bottom left and **Go to Glorion New Character (unsafe)**. This is something I'll be looking into the future to get approval from Google itself, but for now, that's the only way to make the project functional.
    - The dialog will list Glorion’s required permissions:
      - *See, edit, create, and delete all of your Google Drive files*
      - *See, edit, create, and delete all your Google Sheets spreadsheets*
    - Click on **Allow**, granting all necessary permissions to complete the setup.
> ***Note**: Glorion is fully open-source, with code publicly available for you to review at the links below. Although Google requests broad permissions, Glorion will **__NEVER__** interact with anything other than your **Character Spreadsheet** or button images you upload. If custom permissions were possible, they would have been implemented.*
> - **Library**: https://tinyurl.com/glorion-library
> - **Github**: https://tinyurl.com/glorion-github
