# What does the Descriptions sheet do?

This sheet adds extra flavor and clarity during character creation, helping provide more context on various choices. There are three key areas where this sheet is useful. Keep these descriptions short to avoid overwhelming players:

### Paths
Since there’s no dedicated path sheet in the **Database**, the player might not know what each path entails when they need to pick one (usually at level 3). The **Descriptions** sheet addresses this by letting you provide brief explanations of what each path offers.

### Abilities
While each ability already has a detailed description in the **Action-Related** sheets (in the **Descriptions** column), many are too long or contain complex formulas that aren't script-friendly. The **Descriptions** sheet offers a place to create concise versions of these (or even large ones, who am I to stop you, other than not recommending it), to any spell that is a choice node for any class, race, or background.

### Simplified Background Variants
If you create backgrounds with multiple variants that are identical in terms of skills, tools, languages, and items but differ only in flavor or abilities, you can use the **Descriptions** sheet to describe these variants without needing to add new rows to the **Background Data** sheet. For example, you might want the **Academic** variant of the **Scholar** background to be the exact same, other than flavor and ability. This simplified version allows you to avoid creating a new row for the **Academic** variant in the **Background Data** sheet, without losing the information of its description. This is a feature I'm not currently using, as every background variant I've created has detailed information behind them on the **Background Data** sheet.
