# How does the Level Up sheet work?

The **Level Up** sheet in the **Database** spreadsheet outlines what a class unlocks at each level, including:

### Attributes
In this column, you’ll see that at levels 4, 8, 12, 16, and 19, all classes gain 2 attribute points to spend (with the exception of the **Architect**, who gains only 1, empowering their weapons instead). You can adjust these values to grant different amounts at any level, e.g., a class could gain 1 attribute every 2 levels.

### Unlock Path
This column specifies when a class chooses a path, which comes at level 3 for all of mine. Again, you can modify this to occur at any level. Just remember to use ` or ` between path names to indicate that it’s a choice node.

### Unlock Spell Tags
This column is used for classes that unlock abilities from specific groups at certain levels. For example, the **Alchemist** alternates between unlocking **Cask** and **Vial** abilities at every level. To group abilities under a tag, assign one to them in the **Tag** column of any **Action-Related** sheet. When your class unlocks a spell with a specific tag (e.g., **First Slot**), the script will look for all available spells, filter those marked as choice nodes (those with a checkmark in the **Choice** column), and show a list of those with the relevant tag. If more than one ability is unlocked at that level (e.g., **3 Cantrip**), this process will repeat.

Additionally, some level-up gains depend on the character’s path. For example, at __level 7__, the **Alchemist** unlocks a **Cask** ability, but depending on their path, they may unlock something extra. The **Sage** gains an additional **Cask** ability, while the **Thaumaturge** gains an extra **Vial** ability. This is handled by adding extra rows to the **Level Up** sheet with the relevant details. If multiple rows match your level-up criteria, the script will take all of them into account. For clarity, check the **Alchemist's** entries at level 7 on the **Level Up** sheet.
