# How does the Attribute Buttons sheet work?

The **Attribute Buttons** sheet of the **Database** spreadsheet controls button information in the **Attributes** sheet  of your characters, determining how and where buttons are placed. Rows with values in the **Name** column use the following columns to regulate that:
- **Name**: This is both a tag and a reference to the button names listed in the **Buttons** sheet. The names are connected to specific button images, and a dropdown ensures valid button selection.
- **Cell**: Defines the cell where the button will be placed.
- **Script**: Specifies the function that will be triggered when the button is clicked.
- **Scale**: Adjusts the button’s size. A scale of **1** represents 100% of the original size. For instance, a scale of **0.5** (or 50%) halves the button size, while a scale of **2** (or 200%) doubles it.
- **Offset**: By default, the button will be positioned to fit precisely within the specified cell, with its top-left corner aligned with the top-left corner of the cell. **Offset** allows you to fine-tune the button’s placement within the cell using **X** (horizontal) and **Y** (vertical) offsets in pixels. Positive or negative values can move the button in any direction.

You can overwrite button placements for specific classes by adding rows that use both **Name** and **Class** columns. For example, the default **Initiative** button might be placed at cell **M7** with an offset of (**6, 5**) pixels. However, if you’re playing as a **Berserker**, the same button will be positioned at cell **Q7** with an offset of (**0, 5**) pixels, instead.

Some classes have extra custom fields in their **Attributes** sheet, requiring button positions to shift. For example, **Berserkers**, **Nomads**, and **Pathfinders** use the empty row in the **Attributes** sheet (range **A1:X12**) for custom fields, so buttons below row **11** must shift down two rows. This is handled by the **Row Transpose** columns and requires the **Class** column to have a value, and the **Name** column to be empty:
- **After Row**: The row after which button transposition begins.
- **Increment**: The number of rows to shift buttons, which can be positive (move down) or negative (move up).
You can see that half of the classes use the extra row (well, two rows to be specific) for custom fields in their **Attributes** sheet, as they have an **After Row** value of 11 and and **Increment** of 2 rows.
