# What's the difference between The Vault and The Archive sheets?

Though they appear similar at first glance, **The Vault** and **The Archive** sheets in the **Database** spreadsheet serve distinct purposes:
- **The Archive** serves as the __**DM's** item list__, containing complete information on all items, including sensitive details like costs and mechanics. It acts as the source of truth for the eyes of the **DM** only.
- **The Vault** serves as the __players' item list__, where sensitive information (like item costs) can be hidden from the players, as the **DM** adjusts what they see, making it suitable for different campaigns and scenarios. For instance, prices of rare artifacts or unknown items can be omitted until players discover them, or even bargain with a vendor for them. You could also have different campaigns where certain items have different attributes between them (cost, weight, characteristics etc.). As an example, when a campaign of mine begins, the cost of all herbs the **Alchemist** uses is unknown. Later on, after the players interact with a variety of vendors, being aware of the average cost of each herb, I include that information in **The Vault**, for them to see. At the same time, there are certain unidentified artifacts my players find that I manually add their identified version, once they become identified.

My suggestion is that, as a **DM**, you should have a singular source of truth (**The Archive**) for every campaign, providing a comprehensive view, with a unique and customized item list for each of these campaigns. These should be copies of **The Vault** sheet with surgical modifications, each with their own name (**Items key**), e.g., "*Wonderworks*", or "*Equinox*".

Remember, you connect an item database to a character sheet during character creation through the **Items key** field, or by modifying the **Items_Key** field in the **Variables** sheet, manually, later on.
