# How does the Alchemist's Locate Herbs ability work?

The details of this ability might not be clear from the **Alchemist's** class sheet, so there's a specific section here to shed light on certain nuances that might rise. Having said that, when you use **Locate Herbs**, you make two checks:
- A **Nature (INT)** check to determine the __quantity__ of herbs found.
- A **d12** roll, with your **WIS** modifier added, to assess the __quality__ of the herbs (think of it like another check).
When you have both of these results, you either report them to the **DM**, or let the script take care of what you find, should you have pressed the **Use** button of the ability in the spreadsheet.

The outcome of these checks depends on your environment (e.g., cavern, forest, urban), which alters the type and amount of herbs you can find. For instance, a desert provides mostly **Cinderthorn**, while the seashore provides mostly **Seaweed**. Each cast of **Locate Herbs** can provide from __none__ up to __three__ herbs. Here’s the breakdown:

### Herb Quantity
- A base threshold must be met on the **Nature (INT)** check to find herbs.
- If this check passes, you can find 1, 2, or 3 herbs depending on the result. Each environment has different thresholds for determining herb quantities.

### Herb Quality
- You roll a **d12** and add your **WIS** modifier to determine if any of the herbs is rare. If the result meets a specific threshold for your environment, one of the herbs found will be a rare herb (**Aetheriss** is the only rare herb currently).
- If no herbs are found (i.e., the **Nature (INT)** check fails), the quality roll is ignored.

### Common Herb Types
Once the number of herbs is determined, and possibly one rare herb, we select the types of common herbs from a weighted list specific to each environment. The specific type of herb is based on weights assigned to each type in that environment. If there are no common herbs to be found, we can ignore this step.
- For example, a desert cultivates **Cinderthorn**, **Earthroot**, **Springkelp**, and **Starflower**, with respective weights of 10, 3, 1, and 1, meaning that locating a **Cinderthorn** is 10 times more likely than locating a **Starflower**.
- We add up all of these weights and generate a random number in that interval. For our desert example we have a sum of 15, so we generate a random number between 1 and 15: If it's between [1, 10], the herb found is a **Cinderthorn**. If it's between [11, 13], then it's an **Earthroot**. If it's exactly 14, it's a **Springkelp**, and if it's exactly 15, it's a **Starflower**. This is a basic calculation of a generic loot table, with items of higher weights taking up more "*slots*" in the interval that the random number sees.

Now, on the **Environment** sheet of the **Database** spreadsheet, we have all of these weights and thresholds for the script to automate the above calculations, based on the dice rolls. The sheet has the following columns:
- **Environment**: The name of the environment, shown in the modal's list when a player casts **Locate Herbs**.
- **Ask**: A checkbox to control whether a specific environment appears in the modal list for players. If the box is checked, the environment is shown in the list. Some custom environments (e.g., unique locations in the world of Glorion) may be hidden by leaving this box unchecked, even though they are still valid inputs for the herb search.
- **Flora**: A list of possible herbs for each environment, along with their respective weights. The weight defines how likely it is to find each herb with higher weights making the herb more common in that environment. If a herb isn’t listed for a given environment, it cannot be found there.
- **Thresholds**: Difficulty thresholds for locating herbs, determining how many are found and if any of them are rare:
  - **No Herb**: If the **Nature (INT)** check fails to meet this threshold, the process ends and no herbs are found.
  - **One Herb**: The first column indicates the increment in difficulty from the previous threshold (mostly 3 or 4), and the second column shows the actual threshold. Try to keep this a positive integer, else the result won't make much sense (lower threshold for more herbs?).
  - **Two Herbs**: The logic here is exactly the same with **One Herb**, the first column being the increment in difficulty from the previous threshold, and the second being the actual threshold.
  - **Rare**: The threshold for one of the located herbs to be a rare one, based on the **d12 - WIS** check result. Results equal or above this generate an **Aetheriss**, while the rest generate common herbs.
