# How do Variables work?

In Glorion, variables are essentially **Named Ranges** in **Google Sheets**.
- A **Named Range** is just a label you assign to a specific range of cells (could be a single cell, a row, a column, or a bunch of cells). This label lets you reference that range more easily in formulas. For example, when calculating your character's max health, we use a formula that relies on three named ranges:
```
=CEILING(Base_Max_Health * Max_Health_Multiplier + Max_Health_Modifier)
```
- To see all the variables (named ranges) in your sheet, click on **Data** in the top menu and select **Named Ranges**. A list will pop up on the right side showing all the named ranges, with each label pointing to a specific range. Clicking on any of these named ranges will show you where it's located, and you can edit them by clicking the pencil icon. However, it’s best not to mess with these since they’re exclusively managed by scripts. You can also add your own named ranges by clicking **Add Range** at the top of the menu, then filling in a name and a range.

Now that you understand named ranges, let's talk about the variables of Glorion. When you create a character, the first sheet to be initialized is the **Variables** sheet, which we hide right after. To view it, click on **View** at the top menu, hover over **Hidden Sheets**, and select **Variables** from the list (probably your only hidden sheet). When you open it, you'll see two columns: one for the variable names and the other for their values. Every row in this sheet represents a variable, and each one is a named range. The name of the variable is the label of the range, and the value is stored in the corresponding cell in the second column. While you can modify these rows, it’s generally best to let the scripts handle them. Once you're done looking, you can re-hide the sheet by right-clicking on its tab and selecting **Hide Sheet**.

For **DMs**, the **Database** spreadsheet offers two sheets to manage variables:
- **Base Variables**: The **Variables** column is the variable’s label, and the **Calculation** column is its value, similar to the **Variables** sheet in character spreadsheets. The **Keep Value** column has a checkbox that controls whether the variable holds on its value when the **Variables** sheet is updated. If checked, the variable is initialized only once, and after that, it will keep its current value, ignoring any updates from the **Database**.
- **Class Variables**: These are class-specific variables, and they can either be unique or overwrite those in **Base Variables**. The first columns act as criteria, and variables with a **Tag** of **Extra** will only be loaded if the corresponding ability has been learned, based on the **Choice** column. The rest of the columns are similar to those in **Base Variables**.
